We have a form here that
we needed to animate.
So let's add some animations to this form
and make it look a little bit better.
So the first animation that I was thinking
that we could add is a nice slide up
animation, which is going
to do a couple of things.
It's gonna go from opacity 0 to 1 and
it's also going to translate
it from via maybe negative a 100% or
so back to its resting position.
So we're going to do that at the bottom
over here and define the keyframes.
So if we remember our shorthands,
we could use from and so
we could say, opacity is 0 transform none.
Again, if you want to you could say
translate y 0, but it's a lot easier
to just say transform none if there
are no transformations being applied.
And then we could go to in say
opacity 1 [COUGH] transform,
translate by,
actually that'd be the other way around.
So transform none and so
we're gonna put translate y over here so
it's coming from 100%.
So now we have to actually apply that
animation, so we're gonna do that here.
We're gonna set the animation name to
slide up, I believe I called it, yep.
And then we need to add a duration,
so animation-duration.
Let's do this over one second or so, and
then animation timing function.
Let's just do ease in outs,
and let's see how that looks.
So now I'm gonna reload and you can
see that it's smoothly animating up.
Now the usefulness of it keyframes
here which you can play around with if
you want, but it's if we want to actually
have things happen in different times.
For example, let's say that we
want it to be full opacity before
it reaches the top, so
we could say 50%, opacity 1.
And so now it's going to be fully
opaque at that halfway point.
Now remember as a shorthand we could
comma separate this and say at 50% and
when we go to that opacity or sorry and
we go to the end of the animation
the opacity should be 1 and
it's going to happen the same.
By the way,
if you want to inspect these animations,
like the timeline of these animations
in the Chrome Dev tools and
I believe in the Firefox Dev tools
as well, there are animation tools.
So I just press Command Shift P here in
order to open this command palette and
if I type animations we have a drawer
here that is specifically for animations.
So if I were to reload this,
you're gonna see this line over
here preview it and
it does actually show you the animation.
And so now you have this nice timeline
where we could drag this around and
see the animation happening.
So we have our 0% keyframe,
our 50% keyframe,
where it's fully opaque, and
our 100% keyframe here as well.
Now, this is really useful,
like just scrubbing through the animation,
especially for debugging animations.
You could also change the speed
here if he really want to inspect
the animation in detail,
10% a bit slow so we'll go the 25%.
We could take that animation and
we could replay it.
And this is really, really useful when
you're trying to apply animations and
tweak them a little bit.
So you could also change the duration and
change each of the keyframes
on here like so.
So yeah there's another animation that
we have to add too which is shake.
We're gonna be using this in
one of the future lessons.
And so shake,
we're going to move left and right.
So these starting and the ending position,
so from to are not gonna
have any transform.
So we're gonna say, transform none.
And then, we could say like,
let's just say 25%,
or you know let's do 20%, 40%, 60%,
80%, you could have some fun with this.
This is going to be worth
goes to the right so
transform, translate x let's say 10%.
And then we could do the same thing for
the like in between those.
So 10%, 30%, 50%,
70 and 90% that's gonna go to the left.
So this is what our shake
keyframes looks like, and so
let's just apply it,
just to see what it looks like.
So if I go, let me find it over here.
And if I change this to shake,
see how it looks.
Okay, so it's pretty slow, and
we could just change that to 0.3 seconds.
So the total duration of
the animation will be 0.3 seconds.
And so we could tweak these values of
course, we could inspect these animations.
And you could see each of the shakes
happening over here, which is pretty cool.
And so this is useful for stuff like if
the form or parts of the form are invalid,
so you know what if I change
that back to slide up.
I just wanna show you something real quick
for our input there's something called
an invalid attribute so invalid and then
we can could just apply that animation.
And I'm actually gonna use
the shorthand here, so it's animation.
We're gonna shake it for
three seconds, and
just allow the default easing to happen.
So now, if this is invalid,
well [LAUGH] it shakes every
time which we don't really want.
So if we do invalid and
if it's not focused then
that's when we want the shake to happen.
So let's reload this is
really slow forgot to put it
to 100% and this is not an email.
So now if I blur [LAUGH] So
it goes really fast.
So we should probably change
this to like one second.
So that's in email.
Yep, it's pretty angry at us.
So yeah, so those are some examples
of some animations you could add.
You could also apply animations
to the input in button and
just do whatever you want in there.
You could also add animations
to input in button, so
let's say I want to actually
have slide up happen here.
But I actually wants the delay for
them to happen after the form comes in.
So I could say,
animation delay, one second.
And so now you see what happened,
what are we missing?
Let's see if anyone remembers?
>> Film mode.
>> Yes, okay, so
we also need animation film mode, both.
So now, We have that,
it's a little bit laggy just
because the animation panel is up.
So if we reload it's smoother, and so
yeah that's the animations exercise.
So did anyone have questions about that
exercise or animations in general?
>> How about animation?
Please state as I was calm.
Do you find yourself using that
a lot with interactions or
the kind of a property
you don't really use?
>> Animation play state
is a pretty fun property,
in fact I wanna just demo it real quick.
So let's go into our style again.
Again, this is on the scratchpad.
So we are going to get rid of the currency
animations over here or actually we will.
Yeah, so let's just do that.
All right, so at 50%,
let's make this transfer form scale 2, and
let's make it infinite, so
it's going to keep going back and forth.
So infinite.
Okay, so here's what we're doing.
This is going to sort of pulsate.
So it's gonna go from scale 1 to scale 2,
so it's gonna be twice as big,
go back and forth like that.
Now let's see that we don't want this
to happen when we're hovering over it.
So in order to get rid of that animation,
let's do this,
when we hover let's do animation none.
See what happens.
Okay, so it shrinks back down, but
you know that's not what we want.
We don't want the animation
styles to be removed completely.
We just want to pause it be like hey,
hold on.
So this is where animation
play state comes in handy.
We could say animation play state paused.
And so now, when we hover,
it's gonna stop at where you hover it.
So it's pretty cool.